## On Rising at Dawn

I decided to rise at dawn every day for three months. I wanted to see what effect this would have on my physical health, my mental health and my mood.

### Why rise at dawn?

I was feeling depressed. For nearly 4 months I was sleeping in until noon or later. I would lie in bed watching YouTube videos until I felt too guilty to remain in bed. After getting up I would lie down on the couch to watch YouTube videos until it was dark outside.

Some weeks I don't think I even left my house. I had quit both of my contracting jobs. My plan was to start streaming but even though I sat at home with nothing to do all day I just wasn't doing the work.

I felt like I had no purpose in life. I felt that I had no energy or motivation to do anything. I was avoiding a massive list of projects I had planned to work on.

Earlier in life I had anxiety. In times of high stress I had panic attacks. A doctor had given me a clear bill of physical health. He told me that if there is no problem with my body then I should consider a problem with my mental health. He recommended that I see a psychiatrist.

I decided to move to a rural area. I decreased my stress load by choosing my work more carefully. I volunteered in my community. I took up exercise. I kept a healthy diet. None of this brought me out of the depression I was experiencing. 

The depression was still getting worse. Part of that was due to the restrictions on social activity during Covid. Part of it was working from home remotely.

I was trying to address the feeling of lack of purpose in life by watching videos on spirituality.

I came across some videos extolling the benefits of sleep, diet and exercise for dealing with depression. They suggested that sleep was critical.

I made a resolution then to get up at dawn every day for three months. I noticed a difference in just a few days.

The depression lifted and I began experiencing a mania. My mood was elevated, I was optimistic, I even had sweet dreams. No other way to describe it except to say I felt better. I was happier. I was seeing the events of the day in a positive light.

I felt my digestion was better. I was more motivated to cook even better food.

I also started getting things done. Like starting to write this book. This book is a reminder to myself of where I want to be mentally and physically.

### On why it is the first

There seems to be evidence and it seems reasonable to me that the foundation for health is in good sleep, good diet and good exercise.

My diet was already good, consisting of a wide variety of whole foods, fiber, fruits, vegetables, high-quality protein. 

I had tried exercises like jogging and weight training. I think I suffered from post exertion malaise which worsened the symptoms of depression. The days after heavy exercise I would lie around sore and tired and even more lethargic than usual.

I had always been a self-professed night-owl. I would eat a dinner at 9:30 pm. I would go to bed at midnight or later. My sleep schedule was one of the only things I had never tried to fix.

I found some advice on waking up at dawn and then immediately going outside to get some sun. There is some scientific evidence that sunlight falling on the retinas triggers a host of biological events associated with circadian rhythms. There is some scientific evidence that managing circadian rhythm is a major part of physical and mental health.

I was also reading a lot about mysticism and other spiritual philosophies. Being awake is a primary aspect of conscious experience. 

Every morning the sun rises. Every day my life begins new. It is a good frequency to check on my self. I can measure my daily activities with respect to my waking time.

### On why it is the only

It is easy to remember and easy to judge if I comply with this simple maxim. I don't want to have a complicated project to keep track of. I can check in with myself daily by seeing if I am getting up on time.

It is easy to make big plans when one is feeling full of energy and motivation but to fail to keep plans when one is tired and low on energy. Waking up is a small but important plan that I can reasonably expect myself to stick to.

It is not easy to do. Everyone knows this. I've spent all of my life sleeping in and enjoying every moment of it. The warm, comfortable bed and the cozy feeling of giving into sleepiness. Getting up at dawn is hard enough that I don't really need another challenge alongside it.

I think of it like meditation practice. Two common techniques for meditation that I have encountered are related to breath and mantras.

In the case of breath, one focuses their conscious awareness of their breathing. Upon noticing that their mind has wandered from awareness of their breathing they then gently return their awareness back to their breathing.

In the case of a mantra, one focuses their conscious awareness on the recitation of the mantra. Upon noticing that their mind has wandered from the mantra they then gently return their awareness back to the mantra.

So it is with rising at dawn. Upon noticing that my life is wandering into a feeling of purposelessness, I then gently return my waking time back to dawn.

It is like meditation practice for active life.

### The Basic Ritual

The basic ritual is to set an alarm for the time of sunrise. When the alarm goes off, get out of bed and go outside. Stand in the morning light for 10 minutes and then you are done.

I have a slightly more elaborate ritual, and how I extend this ritual throughout the day is further explained in a later chapter.

In short, I wake up at sunrise as described above. Then I attend to needs in the bathroom. I thoroughly wash my hands and face. I apply a moisturizing body lotion. I put on appropriate clothes and then go outside. In practice, the time between my alarm going off and my face being bathed in sunlight is approximately 10 minutes.

While I am outside I say a prayer, which includes some expression of thanks or gratitude and then I set some positive intention for the day. When I come back inside I prepare and eat a small breakfast, clean up the kitchen and then brush my teeth. I am then ready to do whatever work I have planned in the morning.

