## On daily rituals

I try not to be too strict about the rituals as they are not laws. Failing to adhere to a ritual does not imply a need for punishment.

Rituals are reminders, milestones for the day, week, month or year to compare progress of my lived life. They help me know if I am keeping to my own standards.

I keep an open mind to changes and do not fret if I skip a meal, miss a prayer or forget to clean the dishes immediately after a meal.

I prioritize my commitments to others, to my work, or to my community.

I notice when I miss rituals but I do not judge myself. I can also do a minimal set of ritual activities if I am unable to do the full ritual.

My rituals fit around my life, I do not fit my life around the rituals. If leading a good life conflicts with a ritual then I will choose to lead the good life.

### Morning ritual

Morning ritual at dawn is the most important ritual of the day. Waking up at dawn provides a foundation for the entire day. Rising at dawn and getting straight out of bed is a challenge.

I usually require to go to the bathroom immediately upon waking up. I then wash my hands and face.

I use a moisturizing lotion to help maintain a healthy skin microbiome and add protection to my skin. I like that it is a bit of pampering for my skin that goes beyond a basic cleansing.

I choose clothing appropriate for the weather. I then step outside as close to sunrise as possible. It takes approximately ten minutes to get to this point: the waking up, the washing and moisturizing, then clothing.

I stay outside for ten minutes regardless of weather. I raise my face to the sun and feel its warmth and light.

I say a prayer for the day. I consider what I want to get done. I consider what I am thankful for. It takes 30 seconds to thoughtfully consider thankfulness and intentions for the morning.

I may make myself a small breakfast, although not every day. I drink some water. I clean any dirty dishes and then brush my teeth.

I am then ready to start my work for the day. Often the first thing I do in the morning is write in my journal.

### Afternoon ritual

The afternoon ritual has a flexible start time. It is not as essential as the morning ritual so I am less strict in attempting to complete it perfectly. I can start the ritual early or late depending on my schedule for the morning and afternoon.

Before the ritual I review my schedule and record what I accomplished in the morning. I will reconsider my schedule for the afternoon and evening.

I may shower at this time or I may choose to wash my hands and face again. I may use lotion again but it isn't required.

I may change into clothes more appropriate to afternoon activities.

I make a silent prayer of thanks and intention.

I usually prepare and eat a lunch which is often the largest meal of my day. On some days I am too busy and I have a larger meal during the evening ritual.

I clean any dirty dishes and brush and floss my teeth.

I am then ready to start my work for the afternoon.

### Evening ritual

The evening ritual has a flexible start time. Usually it is between early evening and late evening.

The ritual starts with washing hands and optional lotion. I say a small prayer of thanks and intention.

I have a meal that may be large or small, depending on how large my lunch was. I often eat late into the evening but prefer not to eat within 2-3 hours before sleep.

I clean any dirty dishes and brush and floss my teeth.

I am then ready for my late evening leisure which can include watching YouTube videos or reading.

### Reasoning for rituals

Rituals are not critical to success so I try to keep them lighthearted. I focus on waking up at dawn and getting outside. Rituals are a template for a perfect day but not something to worry about.

They provide structure. They break the day into clear sections. They are similar to each other and keep my mind and body aligned to a consistent frequency.

I wash my hands and face, say a prayer, eat a small meal, clean up and then get to work. I repeat this three times a day. The rituals align with my meals and encourage me to say a prayer before I eat.

I can use the rituals as milestones during the day. They give me multiple opportunities to adjust my day, alter my schedule or set a new intention.

The rituals incorporate a set of good hygiene habits including washing myself before preparing food and brushing my teeth after meals.

### Future rituals

I will look for opportunities to incorporate new rituals at new frequencies. These are daily rituals but I could also have weekly and monthly rituals.

For example, I have a monthly habit to review my finances. This could be transformed into a ritual.

I would like to add simple prayers upon waking and before sleeping.
