## On Dominance and Submission

I am speaking of dominance like a dominance hierarchy, or a structural form of society. I am not considering dominance in the form of sexual role play. 

In some senses, dominance is thought of as nearly synonymous with oppression.

### Dominance

Nature itself provides a set of properties that conscious beings are unable to change. We learn about the second law of thermodynamics. We learn about gravity. We call these rules of physics. These rules limit the effect of our free will. There are boundaries imposed on us by nature.

Nature itself is awesomely powerful. The weather can wreak havoc on our human plans. Tornados, hurricanes, floods, earthquakes, lightning and wildfires are mostly unpredictable and have the capability of wrecking most human constructions.

Mathematics and the logic it springs from do not appear to be submissive to our wishes. We are forced to follow where they lead. Science is a journey of discovery.

Dominance plays a role in protection through its relation to authority. The dominant force sets the rules and the submissive is forced to obey. An offer to protect is usually an invitation to submit to an authority.

We have a traditional view of God in some religions that puts God into the role of the ultimate source of authority. God sets the rules, judges our compliance and rewards or punishes based on our actions.

### Submission

To submit to something is to define a virtue. It is through a free-will choice to limit ones own agency that we define what is virtuous in the world.

We choose to submit ourselves to laws and civil constitutions. By doing so we affirm our belief in the virtue of fairly ordered societies.

We submit ourselves to social conventions. By doing so we affirm our belief in the virtue of harmonious community.

I choose to submit myself to getting up at dawn. This submission is an affirmation of my belief in the virtue of aligning oneself with natural cycles. I follow natures lead instead of asserting my own dominance.

Love is the submission of a conscious individual to the needs of another individual.

The view of God that I contemplate is one where God submits to humans. I think of the story of Jesus which tells a story of God suffering and dying for humans. I think of a God that listens to the prayers of conscious individuals. When God listens to our prayers we are in a communion with God defining virtue. I contemplate that God submits to our requests.

This is a view of a changing God. It is a view where conscious individuals participate with God in the creation of the world as we desire it to be.
