## The Pharaoh's procession to the temple

- Pharaoh sitting on a throne on a dais
    - Pharaoh is God
- It is a day to commemorate the completion of a temple in his honor
    - The Pharaoh will visit the temple and bless it
- He stands up from the throne
    - He is dressed in full ceremonial regalia
    - He stands tall with his head facing forward
- He begins to walk forward and steps down a step of the dais
    - He walks slowly and methodically
    - He doesn't turn his head; he keeps his eyes looking forward
- As he passes his high priests they bow
    - His high priest bows because he loves him. 
      He held him and blessed him when he was an infant. 
      He was close to his parents.
    - They begin to follow him in the procession
- He steps down another level and passes his councilors and they bow
    - His chief councilor bows because he admires the well run
      civilization that continues prosperously under the Pharaoh's leadership
    - They begin to follow him in the procession
- He steps down another level and passes his generals and they bow
    - His General of Armies bows because he respects the military
      power wielded by the Pharaoh. The territory defended and the territory 
      conquered.
    - They begin to follow him in the procession
- He steps down to the lowest level and walks forth down a long hall towards
  an open door. The hall is lined with soldiers. The soldiers bow as the Pharaoh
  walks past
    - His Captain of his guard bows because he is impressed with the quality
      of justice and protective rule the Pharaoh holds over his lands
- He steps through the door into the bright hot sunlight of a summer midday. 
  In the courtyard of his palace is a litter waiting for him.
    - He ascends into the litter and takes a seat with his face forward
    - The litter is lifted and borne by four men.
- Before them is a long straight white road, lined on both sides by soldiers
    - The soldiers are holding back a crowd that has gathered on either
      side of the procession path.
    - The road directly connects in a straight line the Pharaohs palace where 
      his throne resides and the newly constructed temple
- The procession continues. Each section of the crowds beside the road is reserved 
  for a particular class of people. The first the Pharaoh passes are the architects and masons. They bow as the Pharaoh passes.
    - The chief architect bows because he is impressed with the majesty of the
      grandiose temple the Pharaoh was able to commission.
- The procession passes the artisans that crafted the statues and reliefs of the temple
    - The chief artisan bows because he is moved by the beauty of the art
      commissioned for the temple by the Pharaoh
- The procession passes the scribes who were tasked with recording the history
  of the pharaoh in hieroglyphs on the walls of the temple. They bow as the pharaoh passes.
    - The chief scribe bows because he is honored with one of the greatest
      collections of scrolls and knowledge of its kind in the world
- The procession passes the farmers who grew the food that fed the nation while the
  temple was built. They all bow to the Pharaoh passes.
    - The chief of agriculture bows because he is impressed that so many mouths
      are fed every day due to the planning of the Pharaoh and his aides
- The procession passes the laborers whose blood and sweat has built the temple 
  and they bow to the Pharaoh
    - The administrator of the laborers bows because he is amazed that so many
      individuals were organized in the singular goal of building such a monument
- The procession reaches the base of the temple. It is here that the planners of the
  procession have arranged for the poorest and most disadvantaged to have a privileged view of the blessing.
    - A poor old woman falls to her knees and bows before the Pharaoh. She bows because
      she knows that the Pharaoh is truly God.

- A key to unlock the story's meaning is that the Pharaoh doesn't care, or even really
  consider, for what reason each person is bowing.
    - He is content that they are bowing but doesn't question why they do so
