## Acknowledgements

I am not endorsing the individuals mentioned here. These are just a few of the people that were top of my mind when I was writing this book. I do not want to confuse anyone into believing that I am accurately interpreting the ideas of the individuals mentioned. The ideas I express in this book are my own including all interpretations of the material mentioned here.

None of the individuals mentioned here have any personal connection to me. They should not be seen as endorsing this book or any of the ideas within it.

The original idea to focus on my sleep schedule came from Dr. Andrew Huberman. I watched a few of his podcast videos on YouTube available at https://www.youtube.com/@hubermanlab and heard his claim that the most beneficial thing one could do for their health was to get 5 to 10 minutes of sunlight onto their retinas within one hour of waking. I have tried a fair number of lifestyle changes to increase my productivity and mood but I had never heard this before encountering his videos. Dr. Huberman claimed this procedure was backed by scientific evidence and it seemed both reasonable and safe to attempt. The effects came within days and lead me to creating this routine and this book. Dr. Huberman can also be found at his website at https://hubermanlab.com/

During this same time I was spending a lot of time on YouTube watching videos on spirituality. Two channels stand out as having provided me with a broad spectrum of information on spiritual topics. Filip Holm from Let's Talk Religion at https://www.youtube.com/@LetsTalkReligion was a great resource on mystical traditions related to Sufism and Islam. Zevi Slavin from Seekers of Unity at https://www.youtube.com/@seekersofunity was a great resource on mystical traditions related to Kabbala and Judaism. Both channels also offer significant material on other spiritual traditions from Gnosticism and early Christianity to the occult and esotericism.

One of the earliest and most profound ideas to affect me was the "The Library of Babel" by Jorge Luis Borges. The Argentinian writer is a master of the short story and he weaves spiritual ideas into his prose with beauty and a deceptive ease.

Plotinus must be mentioned, although I must confess I haven't read his work in original form as of yet. I have long held vague ideas that are expressed most clearly in his neoplatonic terminology. It is a pleasure to come across my own ideas being expressed more clearly and deeply by a man who lived over a thousand years ago. The interpretation of Plato provided by Plotinus must have seeped into the consciousness of Western civilization so thoroughly that I did not even realize that I was learning it and had assumed it as my own. I am indebted to him for the terminology but I must caution that my interpretation is unlikely to completely match his own.

Friedrich Nietzsche was the first philosopher that really engaged my mind. I don't even remember what book of his I first read or even why I picked it up. What I do remember is the feeling of awe I had while I followed along his exposition of ideas. He seemed to deconstruct the foundations of morality before my eyes in a way that I could not argue against.

Søren Kierkegaard was the philosopher that helped me to reconcile my sense of duty to reason, rationality and logic with my intuition towards faith. Albert Camus reminds me to see the absurdity of existence and to embrace this absurdity. Ludwig Wittgenstein reminds me to acknowledge the limits of language and philosophy.

I wish I could acknowledge every philosopher I've read and loved but that would take far too long. I feel guilty knowing that I have surely left many out that deserve to be mentioned. Their ideas and influence live in my mind and my heart. I would have nothing worth saying if it were not for them.
